# Pipenv

- [Pipenv](#pipenv)
  - [1. A better pip workflow](#1-a-better-pip-workflow)
    - [1.1. Requirements file form](#11-requirements-file-form)
    - [1.2. The workflow](#12-the-workflow)
  - [2. Pipenv](#2-pipenv)
  - [2.1. Quick intro](#21-quick-intro)
  - [2.2. Problems that Pipenv solved](#22-problems-that-pipenv-solved)

## 1. A better pip workflow

Source: <https://www.kennethreitz.org/essays/a-better-pip-workflow>

### 1.1. Requirements file form

- Method 1 - Simple requirements

  - A list of top-level dependencies a project has, often without versions specificed.
  - Simple.
  - Unexpected consequences can occur.

- Method 2 - Exact requirements

  - A complete list of all dependencies a project has, each with exact package versions specified.
  - Best-practice for deploying applications, and ensures an explicit runtime environment with deterministic builds.
  - Generated by `pip freeze` from within a current working runtime environment for the application.

  - Unable to upgrade some/all of the packages easily.

### 1.2. The workflow

- Has 2 requirements files
  - requirements-to-freeze: Method 1.
  - requirements: Method 2.

--> Ideally, installation tool should handle this.

## 2. Pipenv

## 2.1. Quick intro

Pipenv is a tool that aims to bring the best of all packaging worlds (bundler, composer, npm, cargo, yarn...) to the Python world.

It automatically creates and manages a virtualenv for your projects, as well as adds/remove packages from your `Pipfile` as you install/uninstall packages. It also generates the ever-important `Pipfile.lock`, which is used to produce deterministic builds.

## 2.2. Problems that Pipenv solved

- No longer need to use `pip` and `virtualenv` separately.
- Use 2 files to separate abstract dependency declarations from the last tested combination.
- Hash are used everywhere, always. Security. Automatically expose security vulnerabilities.
- Strongly encourage the use of the latest versions of dependencies to minimize security risks arising from outdated components.
- Give you insight into your dependency graph (e.g. \$ pipenv graph).
- Streamline development workflow by loading .env files.

<https://medium.com/@grassfedcode/goodbye-virtual-environments-b9f8115bc2b6>
