# Electronic signature

Source:

- <https://github.com/esig/dss/blob/master/dss-cookbook/src/main/asciidoc/_chapters/eSignatures-and-dss.adoc>

Table of content:

- [Electronic signature](#electronic-signature)
  - [1. Electronic and digital signature](#1-electronic-and-digital-signature)
  - [2. Digital signature concepts](#2-digital-signature-concepts)
    - [2.1. Simplified PKI model](#21-simplified-pki-model)

## 1. Electronic and digital signature

The terms “Electronic Signature” and “Digital Signature” are often used interchangeably however they are very distinct concepts as "electronic signature" is a legal concept, whereas "digital signature" is a technical concept that is used to provide a concrete instance of electronic signatures.

Electronic signature is a defined (legally) as "data in electronic form which is attached to or logically associated with other data in electronic form and which is used by the signatory to sign".

An electronic signature does not necessarily guarantee that the signature process is secure nor that it is possible to track the changes that have been brought to the content of a document after it was signed. This depends on the category of the electronic signature.

A **Simple Electronic Signature (SES)** can cover a very broad range of data, such as a name written at the end of an email or an image added to a document.

An **Advanced Electronic Signature (AdES)** is an electronic signature that has the following properties: - It is uniquely linked to the signatory. - It is capable of identifying the signatory. - The signatory has the sole control over the data used for the creating signatures. - It can detect whether the signed data has been modified since the signature.

An **Qualified Electronic Signature (QES)** is an AdES that is based on a qualified certificate for electronic signatures and that has been generated by a qualified signature creation device (QSCD).

A **digital signature** is a technical concept that is based on a **Public Key Infrastructure** (PKI) and involves, among others, public key cryptography and public key certificates. Digital signatures can be used to ensure the unique identification of the signer, the authenticity of the signature and the integrity of the data. The identification of the signer as well as the authenticity of the signature are guaranteed by decrypting the digital signature value using a public key attested by a public key certificate. The component of the digital signature that allows detecting whether signed data has been tampered with is a cryptographic function called a hash function.

"AdES digital signatures" are digital signature formats that have been developped by ETSI to support the eIDAS Regulation and provide a way to create digital signatures that can meet the legal requirements for AdES and QES.

## 2. Digital signature concepts

This section aims to briefly introduce PKI-based digital signature concepts, more specifically concepts related to digital signatures supported by X.509 digital certificates issued by Certification Authorities (CA), and making use of asymmetric cryptography.

### 2.1. Simplified PKI model
